.TH mkstegfs 1 2015.08
.SH NAME
\fBmkstegfs\fR \- mkfs binary to create stegfs file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkstegfs\fR [\fB\-z\fR \fIsize\fR] <\fIfile system\fR> [\fIoptional arguments ...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBstegfs\fR is a FUSE based file system which provides absolute security. Using
encryption to secure files, and the art of steganography to hide them, stegfs
aims to ensure that the existence of such files isn't guaranteed. Implemented as
a FUSE based file system and using the libgcrypt library to provide the
cryptographic hash and symmetric block cipher functions, stegfs is at the
cutting edge of secure file system technology.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
Display list of arguments
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-licence\fR
Display GNU GPL v3 licence header
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Display application version
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cipher\fR " " \fIALGORITHM\fR
Algorithm to use to encrypt data
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-hash\fR " " \fIALGORITHM\fR
Hash algorithm to generate key
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-mode\fR " " \fIMODE\fR
The encryption mode to use
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-paranoid\fR
Enable paranoia mode
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-duplicates\fR " " \fICOPIES\fR
Number of times each file should be duplicated
.TP
.BR \-z ", " \-\-size\fR " " \fISIZE\fR
Desired file system size, required when creating a file system in a normal file
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force\fR
Force overwrite existing file, required when overwriting a file system in a
normal file
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-rewrite-sb\fR
Rewrite the superblock (perhaps it became corrupt)
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry-run\fR
Dry run - print details about the file system that would have been created
.SH NOTES
It doesn't matter which order the file system and mount point are specified as
stegfs will figure that out. All other options are passed to FUSE.
.P
If you’re feeling extra paranoid you can now disable to stegfs file system
header. This will also disable the checks when mounting and thus anything could
happen ;-)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Ashley Morgan Anderson
.SH BUGS
If you do think you've really found a bug, please first check the README or the
CHANGELOG to see if it has already been documented and scheduled for the next
release; then if you're still convinced, let us know at
https://albinoloverats.net/?tracker
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007\-2015 albinoloverats ~ Software Development
.SH LICENCE
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.PP
Note on spelling: As albinoloverats.net is a British company and \(lqlicence\(rq
is the correct spelling in its native language. However, the name of the
licences, written in most cases in America, feature the American spelling of the
word, license. As part of the title of the official licensing document it was
thought inappropriate to alter the spelling. In British English, license is the
verb, licence is the noun and licensee is the person who is granted a Licence.
